# Teaching

Graduate student at Colorado State University (CSU) have the unique opportunity to teach some of the undergraduate mathematics courses. Teaching these courses has strengthened my mathematical knowledge and my ability to effectively communicate this knoeledge to others. 

## My Teaching Philosophy

I have always been amazed by the complexity yet beautiful simplicity of mathematics. I was lucky enough to experience this beauty early on in mathematics, but many of the students that come to my class still see math as a set of rules and mind-numbing operations that spit out an answer. In response, my approach to teaching focuses on two key ideas: engaging students by helping them discover the wonder of mathematics and by supporting a growth mind set in them.  My teaching philosophy is greatly inspired by the work of Paul Lockhart in his book “A Mathematician’s Lament” in which he critiques the education system for presenting mathematics as if it is a closed case of rules and operations that have no creativity behind them. Instead, he proposes that mathematicians should be taught like art or music, where students can experiment and play with the subject before learning the formal rules and rigor. While I cannot undo my students past mathematical experiences, my goal in teaching is to show them the wonder and creativity in mathematics and to realize that the subject is full of discovery, not just procedures. Lockhart says, “Mathematics is the art of explanation. If you deny students the opportunity to engage in this activity-- to pose their own problems, to make their own conjectures and discoveries, to be wrong, to be creatively frustrated, to have an inspiration, and to cobble together their own explanations and proofs-- you deny them mathematics itself.“ Based on this perspective, I present my student with challenging problems in groups that encourage them to questions themselves and one another, form their own perspectives, and discover the mathematics for themselves. However, I know that at the same time, I cannot simply throw my students to the wolves and expect them to discover all the concepts of calculus that took the best mathematicians hundreds of years to discover. I therefore also craft my students more abstract thoughts into the rigorous mathematics that is universally understood. Together, my goal is for my students to gain a new perspective on math and develop the problem solving and communication skills to tackle any mathematics they may see in the future and then communicate their thoughts to others. 

I strive to support a growth mindset in my students. Failure is scary, but it is also part of learning, and I create a caring environment where failure is simply a chance to learn. At the start of every semester, I specifically address this idea of a growth mindset and encourage my students to participate in class and not fear mistakes. I emphasize the importance of determination and struggling through hard content, because at the other end of the struggle is the incredible beauty and simplicity of the math. I always tell my students that math is so interesting because it is so hard to understand, but it’s also built to work, so once the complexity is understood, it becomes simple and fits together perfectly. Many of my students discover this for themselves at some point in the semester. 

While I strive to provide my students with as much knowledge and self-discovery as possible, I also know that mathematics and school itself is not the top priority of my students. I therefore hold my students to high expectations while also showing kindness and understanding. I want my students to succeed, but I know this is not possible if they are bogged down with the craziness of life. I frequently check in with them at the start of class to see how they are doing and encourage them to reach out to me when life is too busy to do math. I want my students to understand that I too am human, and I respect their busy lives while also encouraging their success.

I’d like to end with another quote from Lockhart; “A good problem is something you don’t know how to solve. That’s what makes a good puzzle and a good opportunity.” I view teaching mathematics, especially to students who are only in my class because of a requirement of their major, as a puzzle that I work on solving every day. 



